# Reducer

Reducer는 store에 보내진 action에 따라 어떻게 app의 state를 바꾸는지 명시한다.  
action은 어떤 일이 일어나는지 기술을 하는 것이지, 어떻게 state를 바꾸는지에 대해서는 기술하지 않는다. 

## Designing the State Shape

Redux에서는 모든 app state는 단일 객체로 저장되어야 한다. 
In Redux, all the application state is stored as a single object. It's a good idea to think of its shape before writing any code. What's the minimal representation of your app's state as an object?

todo app에서는 아래 두가지를 저장해야한다.

- 현재 선택된 visibility filter 
- 실제 todo list 


You'll often find that you need to store some data, as well as some UI state, in the state tree. This is fine, but try to keep the data separate from the UI state.

{
  visibilityFilter: 'SHOW_ALL',
  todos: [
    {
      text: 'Consider using Redux',
      completed: true
    },
    {
      text: 'Keep all state in a single tree',
      completed: false
    }
  ]
}
#Note on Relationships
In a more complex app, you're going to want different entities to reference each other. We suggest that you keep your state as normalized as possible, without any nesting. Keep every entity in an object stored with an ID as a key, and use IDs to reference it from other entities, or lists. Think of the app's state as a database. This approach is described in normalizr's documentation in detail. For example, keeping todosById: { id -> todo } and todos: array<id> inside the state would be a better idea in a real app, but we're keeping the example simple.

## Handling Actions

Now that we've decided what our state object looks like, we're ready to write a reducer for it. The reducer is a pure function that takes the previous state and an action, and returns the next state.

(previousState, action) => nextState
It's called a reducer because it's the type of function you would pass to Array.prototype.reduce(reducer, ?initialValue). It's very important that the reducer stays pure. Things you should never do inside a reducer:

Mutate its arguments;
Perform side effects like API calls and routing transitions;
Call non-pure functions, e.g. Date.now() or Math.random().
We'll explore how to perform side effects in the advanced walkthrough. For now, just remember that the reducer must be pure. Given the same arguments, it should calculate the next state and return it. No surprises. No side effects. No API calls. No mutations. Just a calculation.

With this out of the way, let's start writing our reducer by gradually teaching it to understand the actions we defined earlier.

We'll start by specifying the initial state. Redux will call our reducer with an undefined state for the first time. This is our chance to return the initial state of our app: