## Why is my component re-rendering too often?

`mapStateToProps` `mapDispatchToProps`
React Redux implements several optimizations to ensure your actual component only re-renders when actually necessary. One of those is a shallow equality check on the combined props object generated by the mapStateToProps and mapDispatchToProps arguments passed to connect. Unfortunately, shallow equality does not help in cases where new array or object instances are created each time mapStateToProps is called. A typical example might be mapping over an array of IDs and returning the matching object references, such as:

```js
const mapStateToProps = state => {
  return {
    objects: state.objectIds.map(id => state.objects[id])
  }
}
```

Even though the array might contain the exact same object references each time, the array itself is a different reference, so the shallow equality check fails and React Redux would re-render the wrapped component.

The extra re-renders could be resolved by saving the array of objects into the state using a reducer, caching the mapped array using Reselect, or implementing shouldComponentUpdate in the component by hand and doing a more in-depth props comparison using a function such as _.isEqual. Be careful to not make your custom shouldComponentUpdate() more expensive than the rendering itself! Always use a profiler to check your assumptions about performance.

For non-connected components, you may want to check what props are being passed in. A common issue is having a parent component re-bind a callback inside its render function, like <Child onClick={this.handleClick.bind(this)} />. That creates a new function reference every time the parent re-renders. It's generally good practice to only bind callbacks once in the parent component's constructor.